# Understanding Risk Factor in Automobile Insurance using Random Forests

Insurance companies are constantly looking for ways to accurately assess the risk of insuring different vehicles. This is important, as it allows them to set appropriate premiums and ensure that they can cover potential losses. This project presents a statistical analysis that uses machine learning to predict the risk rating of automobiles based on their characteristics. More specifically, it will investigate the affect of a car’s specifications on the assigned insurance risk rating (symbol) of a vehicle which is a significant factor when calculating insurance premiums. This analysis will not only assist insurance companies but also help consumers become more aware about the key drivers of their insurance rates.

The automobile dataset included information about 205 cars from 1985 Ward’s Automotive Yearbook. Each car was defined on 26 physical characteristics including the decision variable _symboling_.

Decision trees, simple regression, random forests, and boosted forests were used to find a model to make conclusions about the risk rating of a car for an insurance company.

The results of the analysis show that certain characteristics of an automobile such as its make, height, and number of doors are likely key drivers of risk. Additionally, vehicles with certain characteristics like a larger wheel base are less likely to be associated with higher risk. Based on these findings, a model has been developed that can predict the risk associated with insuring a particular vehicle by just inputting a car’s specifications. The accuracy of the model was tested using a variety of metrics, and found that it was able to make accurate predictions with a high degree of precision. This suggests that it is a valuable tool for both insurance companies and their customers, as it will help companies to accurately assess the risk of insuring a particular vehicle and to set appropriate premiums. By understanding the factors that contribute to a vehicle's risk, customers can be provided with the best possible coverage at the most competitive rates. As the dataset keeps growing with new car models being added, the algorithm is going to constantly learn and identify new trends and adjust the predictions accordingly.
